---
layout: default
title: About
permalink: /about
---

In a healthy individual, identifying foreign antigens is carried out by the cells of the innate immune response and the T and B lymphocytes of the adaptive immune system. These T and B cells are characterised by a highly diverse repertoire of somatically-assembled antigen receptors. Their appearance in jawed vertebrates 500 million years ago correlated with the evolution of a mechanism to ignore the non-infectious self.
During maturation, T and B cells undergo stringent selection based on their receptor properties in a process termed central tolerance. The primary organ for central tolerance induction of T cells is the thymus (Fig. 1A). In the thymus, blood-borne T cell progenitors interact with thymic epithelial cells (TECs) to select for T cells with functional T cell recep- tors (positive selection) and select against T cells that show a strong binding to self-antigens (negative selection). Positive selection takes place through cortical TECs, whereas negative selection largely depends on the antigen-presentation of TECs in the thymic medulla. Col- lectively, these medullary TECs (mTECs) express over 85% of all protein coding genes, while each antigen is expressed by only about 1-3% of mTECs [2, 3]. This phenomenon termed promiscuous gene expression (pGE) imposes central T cell tolerance by making self-antigens, which are otherwise expressed in a spatially or temporally restricted manner, continuously accessible to developing T cells. About one third of promiscuously expressed genes either dependent on or have their expression enhanced by the transcription factor Aire [2, 3]. The repertoire of self-antigens in mTECs is further enhanced by post-transcriptional modifications such as RNA editing and splicing [4].
Despite extensive work on the molecular basis of pGE, our understanding of the tissue- level organisation is limited. Little is known about the spatial organisation of pGE and how the distribution of antigens across the thymus affects mTEC-T cell interaction and T cell migration. I propose to substantially advance our understanding of mTEC negative selection by creating realistic, spatially aware, computational models of pGE and the interactions of developing T-cells. Below I describe a preliminary simulation of negative selection in the thymus and outline the strategies to build a more sophisticated model in my future research.

